# My Career Ambition 

I have a passion for philosophy. I guess that’s what I get for deciding to go to a liberal arts university. Really, it’s my school’s fault for leading me down this path! I didn’t even know what philosophy was before coming here and being encouraged into an intro philosophy course that fulfilled a gen ed. And here we are… 

All that being said, I thoroughly enjoy philosophy. My plan is to eventually get my PhD in it and become a professor. Despite being quite an ambitious goal, my heart, nonetheless, is set on becoming a full-time student and dedicating my life to learning. 

So where am I at with that now? I’m currently a fourth year student (with no intentions of becoming a fifth year) set to graduate in May. The GRE is looming over my head and application deadlines are whispering in my ear. However, while still keeping my options open, Georgetown is the graduate school that is _really_ calling my name. 

---

## My Interest in the Digital Humanities (DH)

Philosophy is an _old_ discipline. So old, in fact, that it slugs behind the age of information. Yet, as it obviously falls under the humanities umbrella, the growing field of digital humanities is overwhelmingly relevant to my future goals. 

Considering that getting a job in the field of philosophy is already next to impossible, anyone who’s really serious about joining tries to make themselves competitive by bringing fresh, relevant skills with them that a university _wants_. If you don’t bring the hope of revitalizing the humanities with you to an interview, you might as well watch to make sure the door doesn’t hit you on your way out. Thus, having a digital humanities background gives me a leg up on the competition. 

Besides simply wanting a job, DH really does have the best chance of keeping my area of interest afloat in the ever increasing STEM (science, technology, engineering, and math) focused world. Call me biased, but I firmly believe that the humanities are extremely important and cannot be lost in the haze of STEM. 

Therefore, it is amongst my responsibilities to stay up with the times and do my part in keeping the humanities hot. And it can be done! I saw it first-hand at [Macquarie University](https://www.mq.edu.au/faculty-of-arts/departments-and-schools/department-of-philosophy) while I was studying abroad in Sydney, Australia. 
