# TEI/Coding Project Blog

## Introduction

This was my first time working with TEI and coding. Frankly, at first, it terrified me. What was really scary about this project was the fact that I have made a point of staying away from any kind of computer coding my whole academic career. I wouldn’t have touched even the idea of coding with a thirty-nine and a half foot pole. My background in philosophy and English has never asked me to work with coding, so when this project landed at my feet, I was worried (to say the least).

But Dr. Stover was more than understanding and knew that for the majority of us, we didn’t even have the slightest idea of where to start. By taking the project step-by-step we all got through it. 

The purpose of the TEI project was to introduce us to coding. The digital humanities utilize coding in a variety of ways, so it is important that we had a background in, and understanding of coding via first-hand experience. This allowed us to fully grasp its relevance in the field. 

By the end of the project, my paralyzing fear of coding was no longer. Now, it’s only a relative fear; seeing as we were just doing the basics. Yet, I feel now that I can manage a similar project like this in the future with some level of competency. 

## The Project Itself

My portion of the reading was the very beginning. It was slightly different than my peers in that I had the title, the byline, and the very first image, along with the very first words. At first, this put an unnecessary amount of weight on my shoulders. I was worried that if I messed up, it wouldn’t just have the potential to just get lost in the text like it would if it was deeper in the story. Instead, it was right in your face at the very beginning. 

But, as I said, that weight was unnecessary because, with my minimal text (since the image took up the majority of the page), I had time to pay close attention to those details instead of being focused primarily on the words which I was responsible for. 

The Google Doc exercise before we even began coding was especially helpful in that regard. Google Docs is a platform that I’m very familiar with. Therefore, pulling apart all the minute details of my relatively short portion, such as italics, em dashes, paragraph beginnings, images, and so forth, was a breeze. Again, these details were very important for my section, since it was the beginning, so dissecting it in the Google Doc was productive. I greatly appreciated that as a segway into the coding itself. 

[google doc image](http://abbysaether.github.io/abbysaether/images/TEIGoogleDoc.png)

As for the coding though, I cannot say that I had the same experience. My nerves were definitely getting to me at first which made it difficult for me to just watch and listen as Dr. Stover walked us through the first steps. Once I had it set up properly though, and the box was green in the Oxygen software, I found that coding was not that complicated.

Throughout my project, I did struggle with how codes require an exact string of symbols. At one point, I was trying to make a word italic with an em dash before it (the author uses so many em dashes!). The system would not take my code no matter how much I was changing it, checking it again, and then changing it again! I came to find out that I was simply missing a space between two symbols. 

It took me a while to work through that error, but by slowing down and checking every symbol, I was able to find the problem. The box in Oxygen turned green again and I was good to go! 

Oxygen also has an author mode that shows you what your code looks like as an internet page. This feature was extremely helpful and made proofreading easier at the end. 

*code image*

Beyond that incident, the rest of my project went smoothly. 

One class period, I finished early so I decided to go over my code. Good thing I did because I found that I misspelled the author’s name in the byline! Proofreading is always important, even in (or especially in) coding. 

Overall, I’m glad that this project was assigned. It was quite a learning experience for me. Although I don’t anticipate that I will be coding again soon, it gives me peace of mind knowing that I am capable of it should the need arise. 
